	Logistic Regression
Logistic regression is the appropriate regression analysis to conduct when the dependent variable is dichotomous (binary). ... Logistic regression is used to describe data and to explain the relationship between one dependent binary variable and one or more nominal, ordinal, interval or ratio-level independent variables.
Logistic Regression, also known as Logit Regression or Logit Model, is a mathematical model used in statistics to estimate (guess) the probability of an event occurring having been given some previous data. Logistic Regression works with binary data, where either the event happens (1) or the event does not happen (0).
                        Logistic Regression is a Machine Learning classification algorithm that is used to predict the probability of a categorical dependent variable. In logistic regression, the dependent variable is a binary variable that contains data coded as 1 (yes, success, etc.) or 0 (no, failure, etc.). In other words, the logistic regression model predicts P(Y=1) as a function of X.


1)Why Logistic Regression Is better than the Linear Regression:-
Logistic regression is used for solving Classification problems. In Linear regression, we predict the value of continuous variables. In logistic Regression, we predict the values of categorical variables. In linear regression, we find the best fit line, by which we can easily predict the output.

2)Logistic Regression Assumptions:-
a) Binary logistic regression requires the dependent variable to be binary.
b) For a binary regression, the factor level 1 of the dependent variable should represent the desired outcome.
c)Only the meaningful variables should be included.
d)The independent variables should be independent of each other. That is, the model should have little or no    multicollinearity.
e)The independent variables are linearly related to the log odds.
f) Logistic regression requires quite large sample sizes.


3)Types of Logistic Regression:-
1. Binary Logistic Regression
The categorical response has only two 2 possible outcomes. Example: Spam or Not
2. Multinomial Logistic Regression
Three or more categories without ordering. Example: Predicting which food is preferred more (Veg, Non-Veg, Vegan)
3. Ordinal Logistic Regression
Three or more categories with ordering. Example: Movie rating from 1 to 5
Decision Boundary
To predict which class a data belongs, a threshold can be set. Based upon this threshold, the obtained estimated probability is classified into classes.
Say, if predicted_value ≥ 0.5, then classify email as spam else as not spam.
Decision boundary can be linear or non-linear. Polynomial order can be increased to get complex decision boundary.



steps of Logistic Regression:
1.import libraries
2.read dataset
3.divide the dataset into train and test set
4.feature scaling if required
5.sklearn.linear_model import Logistic regression
6)y_pred
7.calculate confusion matrix